All right, so the last tag of the deaf room is about another
PIN 6040 device. We heard a lot about them today, but not much on the PIN time yet. So give a round of applause to Joseph.
Thank you, wow, so many people here. So I'm Joseph and you probably ask why you should listen to me.
I'm from Bernou. I'm C-Developer. I code in Bash.
Yeah, Bernou is a nice city by the way. We have like those big statues and so on.
In Bernou we have that conf, which is great open source conference. I would like to invite you there.
Code for papers is still open.
I'm organizing open-out conference in Czech Republic, which is in Czech, so not very interesting for you.
I'm writing NEMU mobile, which is C++ project. I fly with microlight airplane and I did some adjustment.
I'm doing adjustment of Amazfish, which is company on app to PIN time.
I have a few patches there, so I hope I understand the topic a little bit.
So that's about me. What's about you?
Well, yet another thing. I wasn't sure about if I'm able to arrive because my back hurts and my doctor told me to do some exercise, so let's do exercise with me.
So I'm C-Developer. Please write your hand.
Okay, many C-Developers. I'm not C++ developer. Is anyone C++ developer?
Okay. Do you own PIN time? Who have PIN time? Oh, so much. Right.
What next? So do you try to code for PIN time? I'm trying to. Wow, so many people.
Okay, so I will try to adjust details for you.
And as I said, or I didn't said that I'm working for Gracor Text, so I'm not here on behalf of PIN64.
And my aim was to recommend you some, or provide you some details about PIN64 PIN time.
Because you may consider buying some smartwatch.
And my aim was also to tell you about other options.
So I selected those few devices, Bangal JAS, SQFMI.
If you remember, BigBerry SQFMI does smartwatch as well.
I recently started with Asteroid OS, which is great.
And the main difference is that it is like full-blown Linux and very powerful device if you compare it with PIN time.
Okay, you probably know the specifications.
The CPU is 64 MHz. You have 64 kilobytes of memory and small storage.
You have 240 to 440 screen with touch panel.
You have accelerometer from Bosch. You have heart rate monitor, vibration motor, Bluetooth and battery. That's it.
You have, or there are two editions. I have sealed edition of smart PIN time.
And it means you are not able to connect to serial line.
You have to debug everything remotely, which is not very comfortable for coding.
You can buy also DevKit, which has those things.
Okay. What about software?
I was speaking about hardware. This is about software also.
On the left side, we have some operating system for PIN time.
On the right side, we have some companion apps.
If you want comfortable or nice user experience, you probably want both.
There is infinite time, which is written in C++.
There is VaspOS, which is a micro Python, Riot OS, which is in Rust, if I remember correctly.
I was focusing mostly on infinite time, which is like most advanced project.
It's focusing on good user experience, and it's not like so much debugging and so on.
On the other hand, we need some companion app.
If you are using Android, you will choose probably Gadget Bridge, which is great.
But I'm using Ubuntu Touch. What's now?
When I started with PIN time, there wasn't any companion application for Ubuntu Touch.
I've seen AmazFish, which was suitable for porting.
I started with port, and I'm working on that right now. I'm fixing bugs there.
There are also other apps for iPhone or post market OS for POPFOS, like GTK-based application.
We have many options. I choose those to infinite time and AmazFish.
What is infinite time? The vision of the project is to keep freedom and privacy.
They are explicitly saying that they don't want health tracking features.
But what actually it provides?
We have some smartwatch and features.
I would like to hear what features you would like to have on smartwatch.
Please try to shout on me.
Sorry, time. That's a very good feature.
PIN time and infinite time can do the synchronization of time with your companion app.
So you have synchronized time.
Some other ideas?
I'm sorry?
Stopwatch.
That's great. It's there.
Tracking other sport activities.
I decided to split it into three categories.
This goes into health monitoring.
They explicitly said that they don't want to do that.
But it's a good feature.
With age, I'm also wanting some health tracking and sport tracking activities on my smartwatch.
GPS monitoring.
Not for sport but for north.
Okay, so some navigation applications.
There is a feature that you have pure maps.
The pure maps sends, or you set some targets, some navigation.
And the pure maps sends the instruction to D-Bus, to Amazfish.
And Amazfish sends those data to PIN time, to infinite time.
And it should work nicely.
But when I was developing that, I had broken legs, so I haven't the opportunity to test it.
And after that, I didn't test it. Sorry.
But I hope it works.
Okay, if we are speaking about notifications, you probably want to be notified about phone call.
And you probably want to refuse the phone call from the device.
Testing works. It has some limitations.
Like the infinite time starts like five rounds of vibrations.
And after that, it stops vibrations, also notification or the vibration stops even the phone call wasn't received or rejected, actually.
But otherwise, it worked nicely.
Speaking about other notifications, for example, for emails or for instant messaging,
the main issue is that the notifications are limited to 100 bytes,
which is basically content of the whole screen.
Like one screen, but the message can be longer.
For sure. So there is this limitation because of lack of memory on the device.
And when I started with infinite time, there were other issues and I will show them later.
There are also other features such as alarms, but I would like to see a remotely controlled alarm and multiple alarms, but this is not possible.
Similar for calendars.
The Amasfish allows to send notification about event in calendar, but only when you are connected to Bluetooth, by Bluetooth to device.
When the connection is lost, you don't have information about event, which is not the feature you want.
And then you have some kind of other activities like remote control of music and navigation and weather forecast.
By the way, with the new release, which was, I don't know, one month ago,
there is a new weather forecast implemented in infinite time, new protocol.
And with most recent patches, which are in master, but wasn't released yet,
you can have the weather forecast also on other watch faces.
So right now it is available only on pine time style watch face.
Okay, let's continue.
This is how the architecture of system look like.
So thanks for picture.
The important part is that it's based on RTOS and there is some abstraction layer which aims to provide some abstraction for device.
And you can have driver separated from the controller which allows you porting to other devices.
Okay.
I want to develop that, so I'm user.
I have some idea what I want.
And then I would like to try my idea.
There is something called simulator, which allows me to prototype the idea.
It looks like this.
You can even record the screen.
So this is great.
So I've added that into request.
So my idea was that there is missing some notification or some status of the alarm.
So I don't know if alarm is set or not.
So I have added the icon into status bar and recorded the thing and submitted pull request.
It's really easy.
I hope I...
Okay, it's not good idea.
So I wanted to show simulator a little bit, but it's really easy to compile and it's not possible to share the screen.
So maybe at the end if you have time.
The simulator allows you to adjust also steps and the battery level and so on.
So you can tune the UI to have good user experience.
You have tuned gestures and so on.
So it is really great and you don't need the device itself to test your application.
The simulator itself has sub repository with infinite time.
So you are actually modifying the code which can be run on the device.
I have...
When I started with Amazfish, I had troubles with notifications.
So my colleague Pavel Kerek wrote me a message which says,
''Cześć Cinać Králu'' and well, due to limited memory, there isn't font for Czech language.
So it was looking like that so some characters was missing and I wasn't able to read it.
Luckily there is something we call transliteration and it allows to substitute some characters to some similar characters
and we are able to read that normally.
So I have added that option to Amazfish and I was pretty happy.
Then you can see that there are some glitches.
So there is a notification, somebody and title.
So I have noticed that Amazfish is sending those incorrectly.
So somebody should be in the header.
So I have one more line for message itself.
Next you can see that the teleports string should be name of application.
It shouldn't be the name of the debus source.
So this is another thing I was fixing.
Then I was looking how to fix phone calls so it started to work.
By the way my son's name is Adam.
So one character is missing so I noticed that...
I noticed that infinite time doesn't process the alert notification service properly.
There should be A.
So there is a fix in Amazfish with one byte to have proper name.
And there is a plural request in infinite time which removes the byte from processing if not should be there.
If you read abstract of this talk I wrote something like that the community around can benefit from those changes.
So I was making the changes for Wound2Touch but Amazfish still works on Sailfish OS.
So all Sailfish OS can benefit from those changes as well.
So I like that feature of open source.
Okay here are some more examples I have done.
So one of thing was pairing.
And I had issue also with the universal components.
So one issue was that icons had bad dimensions and there was some attached page which wasn't inserted properly.
So you was not able to click back on the pairing page which was really uncomfortable.
I also fixed some retrieving of information about number of steps on device.
I prepared sampler of the activity stream so the pine time is not storing your fitness activities.
So number of steps each minute and heart rate each minute.
But it can just stream data to company in application.
So I am sampling data and in the end I can paint such histograms.
If you look carefully you can see the time is like to 3 p.m. or something like that.
So it is just few samples from whole day.
I have also added some charts for battery so you can see that your battery can last for 7 days roughly.
And also other things.
Yeah let's skip that.
For sure if you are working with microcontroller you want to check battery life.
And you need to be careful to keep your consumption low.
I have yet one slide about summary what MSFish does.
Well from point of view that something does infinite time something does MSFish.
Like they work together.
By the way that picture is like there were some kind of silly joke or how to say that.
So when I was kid so if you say something like I want to be millionaire
the answer was I want to watch with fountain.
So this one is it.
So there are many features some of them are limited like synchronization of activities.
Synchronization of calendar are not there because infinite time doesn't do that right now.
There are a lot of poor requests and the main thing is have bottleneck in reviews.
So it is a little bit demotivating to make something and then wait without response.
But I hope it will be better in future.
And yes it's community project so there is a lot of forks with a lot of ideas.
I have here pictures of some forks from Joachim.
By the way there is a rumor that Joachim he made some next generation of the of the pine time.
So there is more is it will be pine time too.
So twice faster CPU same Nordic semiconductor twice more memory.
But I'm not sure we will see.
And you know it's open source.
There are many forks many many changes.
And it's developing so I hope it will be it will be great.
Or it is already actually but it will be better in the time.
So I hope all of you will are motivated to contribute to Amaz fish to to pine time.
And I'm looking forward to your contribution.
So I think it's time for question right.
Actually maybe one question or so but we don't have so much time.
So maybe one one good question anyone.
Otherwise give up a big I add a S1 actually but still give up a ground of applause first.
Thank you if anybody has better question than mine please go ahead.
Okay just as more curiosity because you mentioned multiple alarms.
Yes I've never owned them smartwatch that supported more than one alarm.
Why in your opinion is that are there some kind of constraints.
Does nobody care about multiple alarms only being in the edge case.
Well I I was looking for features which are interesting for for me this for example find my phone feature which I tried to implement.
And when I was looking for those features I was looking into code of Amaz fish and there was that feature.
So some smartwatch can do that but I don't know which one.
We'll find out somehow thank you.
All right another round of applause.
Thank you very much.
And I will ask you for another round of applause for organizers of that room.
Thank you.
Yeah I didn't do it alone also with Arnaud and all the others that's head out and yeah thank you all for coming to the deaf room.
Make sure to check out the Linux or mobile stands at AW tomorrow if you haven't been there already and have fun.
Thank you.